Prof Uhler: OK, let's reason through it together.
So first about why there is a trade-off between a type
I and a type II error.
OK, so let's draw.

So for example, in our example, right, for a demo mammography,
we used say a binomial model for the test statistic
under the null.
And of course also under the alternative.
So this looks like a binomial distribution.
So this is our null distribution.
Now we introduce this.
We decide on a significance level.
So our significance level is say we choose it to be 0.05.
So that means that if here is our significance level, alpha,
0.05, then this here will be the probability of actually doing
a type I error.
So this here is the type I error.

OK, so now what is the power?
Well, the power, so we of course don't
know the alternative, the distribution
under the alternative.
But now let's just assume it is something we actually
reduced the probability of dying due to breast cancer.
So say our alternative looks something like this.
Of course, we don't know this, right.
I'm just playing as if I knew, as if I was nature
and I actually knew this.
So this would be the distribution
under the alternative.
So now what is the power?
What is the type II error.
So the type II error is--
so OK, what is the power.
So the power is actually the probability
of rejecting the null hypothesis when the alternative is true.
So when the alternative is true, so
under the alternative distribution, the probability
that we are rejecting the null, so we
reject whenever we are on this side.
So all of this here, this is the power.
So this here is the power of our hypothesis test.
And of course, everything on this side here--
so what is the type II error?
So the type II error is when the alternative is true,
that we don't reject the null hypothesis, so
everything on this side.
Let me actually draw this like this.

So this here is the type II error.

That's why the power is 1 minus the type II error.
So we have to type I error.
That's the probability under the null hypothesis
to reject the null when the null is true.
So that's that error.
The type II error is the probability
under the alternative.
So we're in the other distribution
under the alternative not to reject the null hypothesis
when the alternative is actually true.
So now we've drawn everything.
And so now it should be pretty clear.
So how do I reduce--
so this is my significance, this is my cutoff
for a significance level.
So how can I reduce the type I error?
Well, you can reduce it by moving this level here right,
the significance level.
I can reduce it by actually moving to significance level
down.
That's how I reduce to type I error.
But of course, you also just directly see
that if you move this line down, you're
of course also going to reduce power at the same time.
So that's why you can really not do both.
You cannot increase power and at the same time reduce the type I
error.
In other words, you cannot at the same time reduce the type
II error as well as reduce the type I error.

So that's that.
Now what about the second comment
that we made, namely that there is
a trade-off between one-sided and two-sided tests?
If you're asking that in general the one-sided tests are
more powerful than two-sided tests,
meaning that if you're asking, if you really
care about the one-sided question,
you should always perform a one-sided test and not
a two-sided test.
So let's go through this as well.
So let's first look at what is the power of a one-sided test.
I guess we already had this picture over here.
So I'll just draw this again.
So let me draw.
Say this is H, the null hypothesis.
And then here we have the alternative, so one-sided test,
so a one-sided test.
And here say this is my alpha value,
this is my significance level.
Up, and I go up.
And you see that this is all your power, right.
So your power goes all the way until here.
So this is the power of a one-sided test.
Now what happens when you do a two-sided test?
Well, when you do a two-sided test,
the significance level has to go down on this side right,
because I'm going to also cut off on the other side.

So now I'm cutting off here and I'm cutting off here.
So now what is the power?
Well, you see that now the power becomes this part here.

Plus, maybe this curve here goes all the way out here.
Plus I have a little bit on this side of the curve.
But this area is, of course, tiny.
In particular, and if you look at this,
what I lost by doing a two-sided test
and what I gained, this little bit down here that you
can hardly see, well of course I'm
losing much more than I'm gaining.
Hence, the power went down when I went from a one-sided test
to a two-sided test.
Now of course, this depends on the distribution
under the alternative looking like this.
And so that's why I'm saying that usually the power goes
down when you go from a one-sided to a two-sided test.
Now the question to you is, of course,
can you come up with a particular example
and setting where in fact the power might be going up
when you do a two-sided test as compared to a one-sided test.
And again, you can either stop the recording here
or we'll go through this together.
So there are particular cases.
That's why in the previous statement
there is the usually in there.
So there are particular cases, namely if this is again
my null hypothesis, the distribution under the null.
Well, now if my alternative actually
looks like something like this, something quite strange--
for example, it is bimodal--
well, now of course if you have--
so here is say my one-sided test.
So my one-sided test, the power is all of this.

Now of course if you do a two-sided test,
then you're going to lose a little bit here.
So now a two-sided test, I now have 0.025 as a weight
under the null on this side.
So a two-sided test, now the power
becomes cut off a little bit.
It becomes all of this here.

So you of course lost a little bit.
You lost this, lost this part in two-sided test.

But in a two-sided test, what you're going to gain
is all of this.

So you gained this part in the two-sided test.

So you gained much more than you actually lost.
But of course, this really just depends
on the distribution under your alternative
having a lot of mass on both sides and little mass
in the middle.
Now in most applications, well, it's
not reasonable to assume that the distribution
under the alternative will look so
different to the distribution under the null hypothesis.
And hence, one would argue that this second case here really
doesn't happen too often.
And that's why in general the recommendation
is that whenever you really just care
about a one-sided question-- so does introducing mammography
reduce the number of deaths due to breast cancer--
then you should do a one-sided test.
Or does introducing some drug to increase
the lifespan of an individual, then again you
should do a one-sided test, now of course testing to the right.
So instead of here, we're always testing to the left,
whether that probability went down,
now of course you will just do everything to the right.
So that case, whenever your question is one-sided,
whether it is that it becomes smaller
or that something becomes larger,
you should always do a one-sided test, not a two-sided test,
because the one-sided test usually has more power
than the two-sided test.
